---
layout: post
title: "Day 9 - Starting module 3"
author: "Sahibee"
---

It's 3:30 am, 30th September. I couldn't sleep so I have turned my laptop on. I will continue the coursera course now. There's a gap of 30 days in between my blogs, because it was a hectic month. Also, it was my birthday on 8th september. I thought of writing a blog then but I couldn't. Other days I was busy working on a client project. It's my first client design project, so it was a lot of hard work. It is almost done. The dark and light mode desktop screens are done, the mobile screens are still pending though. I wasn't able to work on the course, and I couldn't write blogs. I will continue now onwards. Also, I am not restarting the counting because it's really going to be confusing later. I am even considering editing the titles of the previous blogs to remove the restart of the counting. Let's see. For now, I will continue the course.

Here are the notes:

- The design thinking framework involves the following phases: empathize, define, ideate, prototype, and test.
- During the **empathize** phase, your primary goal is to learn more about the user and their problems, wants, and needs, and the environment or context in which they’ll experience your design.
- In the **define** phase, you’ll analyze your research findings from the empathize phase and determine which user problems are the most important ones to solve, and why.
- The goal of **ideation** is to come up with as many design solutions as possible—don’t settle for your first solution because the most obvious solution is not always the right one.
- After you have an idea of how to solve the problem, you’re ready to enter the **prototype** phase, where your goal is to produce an early model of a product that demonstrates its functionality and can be used for testing.
- The **test** phase is critical to developing the right solution to address your user’s problem, and an organized approach to testing can help you create exceptional user experiences.
- A few core principles while using any framework like this one:
  - Focus on the user.
  - Create solutions that address the user’s problems.
  - Collaborate with teammates across departments.
  - Validate your designs.
  - Iterate as needed to design the right user experience.
